# BatsExplorer_Mobile_App
Mobile_Application_to_record_bat_species_within_UK
Purpose of this app is to encourage ecological consultants and general public that are enthusiastic about bats to submit their records of their bat sightings. Data sharing within ecological world should be encouraged however it is very underdeveloped and usually perceived as time consuming especially during busy survey season when bats are most active. This is where Bats Explorer app could be helpful and start encouraging ecologists and enthusiasts to contribute to storing bats records data which is then forwarded on to local biological record centre (in ideal world) to be stored and then shared within wider ecological community which relies on these data to make important decisions regarding planning. 
The app will include general information about bat species and their habitat requirements. Which resources are needed to record data efficiently will also be mentioned within the app. Also connection to real live data streaming from QEOP MQTT - for visualisation purposes only. 
Depending on the time available, it would be ideal to include location and Information about statutory wildlife sites designated for bats which is stored as a KML layer and possibly might work with Google Maps extension. Whether developer's skills will allow this to be added onto the app - perhaps it is an ambitious decision and might be a project for another developer to pick up on at a later date. 
Mobile App users will need to register to use the app so the data recorded can be traced to the recorder and the data validated - whether the recorded is using resources adequately in order to distinguish bat species.
As the current developer (me) is extremely new to mobile application language such as dart, it will be useful for me to draw out my ideas on paper first prior to jumping on flutter and starting to develop. 
